docs/nodle-wallets/nodle-cash/Intro.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---
# Introduction to the Nodle app

![MainTitle](/img/docs/nodle-cash/intro.jpg)

### What is the Nodle app?
The **Nodle app** is a new way to mine crypto with your smartphone for building the Nodle network around you.
The Nodle network is a decentralized Bluetooth network built with smartphones by thousands of people like you. Your phone will
become a node of the network, helping transmit data from Bluetooth devices to their owners. For the service provided,
 you will get NODL tokens as a reward.


### How is the Nodle network used?

The Nodle network is currently being used for tracking an asset's location, primarily through iBeacons.
It allows tracking parcels, finding lost or stolen electronic devices, locating leased vehicles, etc.
In the future, it can be used to manage any Bluetooth device, for example, weather monitors, traffic lights,
health monitors, etc.

### How does the Nodle app work?

All you need to join the Nodle network is to install the Nodle app and enable Bluetooth and location sharing
in the phone settings. Once you do this, your phone becomes a node of the Nodle network, helping transmit data
from Bluetooth devices around you. The information is then sent back to the owner of the Internet-of-Things (IoT) device.
Your personal data is not shared with the owner.

To better understand, increasingly more and more Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices with sensors all around us need to
transfer data back to their owners but only have Bluetooth radios in them (e.g., no WiFi or LTE). The Nodle app
uses the Bluetooth radio in your phone to connect to these IoT devices and securely transfers the data from Bluetooth
to LTE to whatever company owns the device (e.g., an e-Scooter, a pet with a tracking device, a cargo with a sensor).
The data collected includes mac address, geolocation, broadcasted beacon, and any specific data, which can be sent
to/from a device depending on its type.

### How is my location used?

The location of your device is only used to compute your rewards based on your contribution to network coverage,
and locate Bluetooth devices on request of their owners. The location is never used for any other purpose, shared or sold.


### Private and Secure

We apply the privacy by design principles. The location of your device is only used to compute your rewards based on your
contribution to network coverage, and locate Bluetooth devices on request of their owners. The location is never used for
any other purpose, shared or sold. Data transmitted from Bluetooth devices is provided only to their owners. It is encrypted
in transit to ensure the required level of security.

### Mobile data-friendly

The amount of data transmitted is small. You can force the app to use only WiFi to send the data collected to the cloud.

### Power-efficient

The app has been optimized to use minimal CPU and is extremely power efficient. Your smartphone uses Bluetooth Low Energy,
limiting the impact on your smartphone's battery. As a result, the average consumption for normal usage should be
between 1 to 3% every 24h.

## Where can I download the Nodle app?

You can download the app in the [Google Play Market](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.nodle.cash) and the
[App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nodle-cash/id1480763553).

Commit message:

Edits on docs (#125)
* Update Intro.mdx

- replaced "mine" with "earn"
- rephrased some lines to make it comprehensive

* Update Hotspots.mdx

Rephrased some sentences and added context to make it easier to understand

* Update Hotspots.mdx

Minor changes applied

docs/nodle-wallets/nodle-cash/Intro.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---
# Introduction to the Nodle app

![MainTitle](/img/docs/nodle-cash/intro.jpg)

### What is the Nodle app?
The **Nodle app** is a new way to earn crypto with your smartphone for building the Nodle network around you.
The Nodle network is a decentralized Bluetooth network built with smartphones by thousands of people like you. Your phone will
become a node of the network, helping transmit data from Bluetooth devices to their owners. For the service provided,
 you will get NODL tokens as a reward.


### How is the Nodle network used?

The Nodle Network is currently being used for tracking an assets location, primarily through iBeacons.
It allows tracking parcels, finding lost or stolen electronic devices, locating leased vehicles, etc.
In the future, it can be used to manage any Bluetooth device, for example, weather monitors, traffic lights,
health monitors, etc.

### How does the Nodle app work?

All you need to join the Nodle Network is to install the Nodle app and enable Bluetooth and location sharing
in the phone settings. Once you do this, your phone becomes a node of the Nodle Network, helping transmit data
from Bluetooth devices around you. The information is then sent back to the owner of the Internet-of-Things (IoT) device.
Your personal data is not shared with the owner.

To better understand, increasingly more and more Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices with sensors all around us need to
transfer data back to their owners but only have Bluetooth radios in them (e.g., no WiFi or LTE). The Nodle app
uses the Bluetooth radio in your phone to connect to these IoT devices and securely transfers the data from Bluetooth
to LTE to the company that owns the device (e.g., an e-Scooter, a pet with a tracking device, a cargo with a sensor).
The data collected includes mac address, geolocation, broadcasted beacon, and any specific data, which can be sent
to/from a device depending on its type.

### How is my location used?

The location of your device is only used to compute your rewards based on your contribution to network coverage,
and locate Bluetooth devices on request of their owners. The location is never used for any other purpose, shared or sold.


### Private and Secure

We apply the privacy by design principles. The location of your device is only used to compute your rewards based on your
contribution to network coverage, and locate Bluetooth devices on request of their owners. The location is never used for
any other purpose, shared or sold. Data transmitted from Bluetooth devices is provided only to their owners. It is encrypted
in transit to ensure the required level of security.

### Mobile data-friendly

The amount of data transmitted is small, as an iBeacon message only consists of few bytes. You can also activate WiFi-Offloading in the settings of the to use only WiFi to send the collected data to the network.

### Power-efficient

The app has been optimized to use minimal CPU and is extremely power efficient. Your smartphone uses Bluetooth Low Energy,
limiting the impact on your smartphone's battery. As a result, the average consumption for normal usage should be
between 1 to 3% every 24h.

## Where can I download the Nodle app?

You can download the app in the [Google Play Market](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.nodle.cash) and the
[App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/nodle-cash/id1480763553).
