docs/nodle-wallets/nodle-cash/reimport-your-account.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# (Re-)Importing Your Account on the Web

:::tip The polkadot.js extension may have deactivated in-browser storage by default
In this case you have to go into the settings tab in the top bar and change "in-browser account creation" to **allow** in the account settings section to be able to import your account. 

![Allow creation](/img/docs/nodle-cash/allow-inbrowser-storage.png)
:::

<iframe width="100%" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/zDOoSizhjmQ" frameBorder="0" allowFullScreen></iframe>

1. Once your words have been safely backed up, go to the **Accounts** page of the nodleprotocol.io (Nodle Portal) [https://nodleprotocol.io/#/accounts](https://nodleprotocol.io/#/accounts)
2. Go on the Web UI and click **Add Account**
3. Give the account a name,  then paste your 12 words under **mnemonic seed**. (Double-check the spelling is correct, and that there aren't any extra spaces). Finally create a **password** (We recommend using a long, randomly generated password stored in a password manager). Don't Click "Next" just yet!
   ![Empty Import](/img/docs/nodle-cash/empty-import.png)
4.  Open the **Advanced Options** at the bottom, and select the **Edwards** curve. Nodle uses slightly different cryptographic scheme than the standard Polkadot.
   ![Change Curve](/img/docs/nodle-cash/change-curve.png)

5. Now Click **Next**, and **Save**.

Commit message:

removed redundant backup your account page

docs/nodle-wallets/nodle-cash/reimport-your-account.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Backing Up your Account

The most important thing to do with your Nodle app is to back up your 12 words. Your 12 words are used to generate your private key and act as a password to access your account.
On your Nodle app, go to `Settings > Wallet Settings > Recovery phrase`.

# (Re-)Importing Your Account on the Web

:::tip The polkadot.js extension may have deactivated in-browser storage by default
In this case you have to go into the settings tab in the top bar and change "in-browser account creation" to **allow** in the account settings section to be able to import your account. 

![Allow creation](/img/docs/nodle-cash/allow-inbrowser-storage.png)
:::

<iframe width="100%" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/zDOoSizhjmQ" frameBorder="0" allowFullScreen></iframe>

1. Once your words have been safely backed up, go to the **Accounts** page of the nodleprotocol.io (Nodle Portal) [https://nodleprotocol.io/#/accounts](https://nodleprotocol.io/#/accounts)
2. Go on the Web UI and click **Add Account**
3. Give the account a name,  then paste your 12 words under **mnemonic seed**. (Double-check the spelling is correct, and that there aren't any extra spaces). Finally create a **password** (We recommend using a long, randomly generated password stored in a password manager). Don't Click "Next" just yet!
   ![Empty Import](/img/docs/nodle-cash/empty-import.png)
4.  Open the **Advanced Options** at the bottom, and select the **Edwards** curve. Nodle uses slightly different cryptographic scheme than the standard Polkadot.
   ![Change Curve](/img/docs/nodle-cash/change-curve.png)

5. Now Click **Next**, and **Save**.
