docs/nodle-wallets/nodle-client/connection.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Connect your wallet
:::danger You must already have a wallet
The instructions below assume that you have either imported or created a wallet already. If not, please refer to the other pages in this wiki.
:::

### Step 1 - Welcome

The first step is to select the method that you want to use to connect your wallet to the Nodle Client. The available methods are Talisman, SubWallet, PolkadotJS, and Ledger. Once you have selected a method, you will be guided through the process of connecting your wallet.

<img src="/img/docs/web-wallet/connect-step-1.png" width="60%"/>

### Step 2 - Connect
<img src="/img/docs/web-wallet/connect-step-2-success.png" width="40%"/>

Once you have selected your preferred method of connecting your wallet, you will see a success message if everything is OK, otherwise an error message (see image below). The success message will confirm that your wallet has been successfully connected to the Nodle Client. If you see an error message, please try again or contact support for help.

<img src="/img/docs/web-wallet/connect-step-2-error.png" width="40%"/>

### Step 3 - Select Account

Once your wallet is connected, you will need to select the account that you want to watch on the Nodle Client. The account list will show you all of the accounts that are connected to your wallet. You can select the account that you want to watch by clicking on it. Once you have selected an account, the Nodle Client will start showing the related information.

<img src="/img/docs/web-wallet/connect-step-3.png" width="40%"/>

Commit message:

added smoldot mention to the connect process

docs/nodle-wallets/nodle-client/connection.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Connect your wallet
:::danger You must already have a wallet
The instructions below assume that you have either imported or created a wallet already. If not, please refer to the other pages in this wiki.
:::

### Step 1 - Welcome

The first step is to select the method that you want to use to connect your wallet to the Nodle Client. The available methods are Talisman, SubWallet, PolkadotJS, and Ledger. 

:::info We support connections through the Smoldot light client.

We naturally use an RPC provider to connect you to the Nodle network. But at the bottom of the Connection modal, you will see a checkbox. Checking it will create a web-embedded node that interacts with the network as part of it. This functionality allows you to have a fully decentralized experience. Substrate connect is supported, so you can use this along with their extension.
:::

Once you have selected a method, you will be guided through the process of connecting your wallet.

<img src="/img/docs/web-wallet/connect-step-1.png" width="60%"/>

### Step 2 - Connect
<img src="/img/docs/web-wallet/connect-step-2-success.png" width="40%"/>

Once you have selected your preferred method of connecting your wallet, you will see a success message if everything is OK, otherwise an error message (see image below). The success message will confirm that your wallet has been successfully connected to the Nodle Client. If you see an error message, please try again or contact support for help.

<img src="/img/docs/web-wallet/connect-step-2-error.png" width="40%"/>

### Step 3 - Select Account

Once your wallet is connected, you will need to select the account that you want to watch on the Nodle Client. The account list will show you all of the accounts that are connected to your wallet. You can select the account that you want to watch by clicking on it. Once you have selected an account, the Nodle Client will start showing the related information.

<img src="/img/docs/web-wallet/connect-step-3.png" width="40%"/>
